AppleAuth, an easy ruby way to integrate with Apple Sign In (#169)
rootstrap/blog: content/AppleAuth gem integration with Ruby on Rails - Antonieta Alvarez.md

# AppleAuth, an easy ruby way to integrate with Apple Sign In.

> <img src="images/apple_auth.png" alt="Apple" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Apple](images/apple_auth.png)
```

## What is AppleAuth?

> [AppleAuth](https://rubygems.org/gems/apple_auth) is a Rootstrap developed Ruby gem to integrate Apple Sign In in our server side applications. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[AppleAuth](https://rubygems.org/gems/apple_auth) is a Rootstrap-developed Ruby gem to integrate Apple Sign In in our server side applications. 
```

> [AppleAuth](https://rubygems.org/gems/apple_auth) is a Rootstrap-developed Ruby gem to integrate Apple Sign In in our server side applications. 

Reviewer: No need to add this much marketing

```suggestion
[AppleAuth](https://rubygems.org/gems/apple_auth) is a Ruby gem we developed to integrate Apple Sign In in our server side applications.
```

> Apple announced Sign in with Apple in the (WWDC 2019 Conference)[https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/706/], then in September 2019 Apple updated his (App Store Review Guideline) [https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=09122019b] to state that if your iOS app implements a third-party or social login service (like Facebook Login or Google Sign-In) it will be mandatory to offer Apple sign in as an option by the end of April 2020.  Besides following the standards, implement apple authentication will let sign in using their two-factor authentication Apple ID. After the user follows Sign in with Apple to log in, your app receives tokens and user information that you can use to authenticate the user in your server.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure why it's not highlighting the changes, but they would be `his` for `its`, and `implement` for `implementing`.

> Apple announced Sign in with Apple in the (WWDC 2019 Conference)[https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/706/], then in September 2019 Apple updated its (App Store Review Guideline) [https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=09122019b] to state that if your iOS app implements a third-party or social login service (like Facebook Login or Google Sign-In) it will be mandatory to offer Apple sign in as an option by the end of April 2020.  Besides following the standards, implementing apple authentication will let sign in using their two-factor authentication Apple ID. After the user follows Sign in with Apple to log in, your app receives tokens and user information that you can use to authenticate the user in your server.

Reviewer: Links are not being displayed correctly

### Apple sign-in workflow

> <img src="images/apple_sign_in_flow" alt="Apple" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apple sign in flow](images/apple_sign_in_flow)
```

> For more information, check [Apple Oficial Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_rest_api)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, check the [Apple Oficial Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_rest_api)
```

> ## How AppleAuth works?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How does AppleAuth works?
```

### Validation
Apple authentication follows the OAuth 2.0 flow, and this gem will help us with this flow. After the user signs in in the client side, we will have access to the user_identity, code, and JWT on our server side. The last one is a token that will be used to validate the user authentication with Apple. So Apple_Auth's first step will be to decode and validate the JWT.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ruby
```
or
```
```irb
```

# with a valid JWT
user_id = '000343.1d22d2937c7a4e56806dfb802b06c430...'
valid_jwt_token = 'eyJraWQiOiI4NkQ4OEtmIiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.eyJpc...'
AppleAuth::UserIdentity.new(user_id, valid_jwt_token).validate!
>>  { exp: 1595279622, email: "user@example.com", email_verified: true , ...}

# with an invalid JWT
invalid_jwt_token = 'eyJraWQiOiI4NkQsd4OEtmIiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.edsyJpc...'
AppleAuth::UserIdentity.new(user_id, invalid_jwt_token).validate!
>> Traceback (most recent call last):..
>> ...
>>  AppleAuth::Conditions::JWTValidationError
```

### Authentication
If we successfully validate the JWT, we can authenticate users and get their information. At this point, we can persist refresh-token, to once a day, and if needed get a fresh token from Apple and ensure that the user continues to have their apple_id validated.
```
code = 'cfb77c21ecd444390a2c214cd33decdfb.0.mr...'
AppleAuth::Token.new(code).authenticate!
>> { access_token: "a7058d...", expires_at: 1595894672, refresh_token: "r8f1ce..." }
```

### DeviseTokenAuth Integration

> If you already have DeviseTokenAuth gem implemented on your rails project, you can just run this generator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have DeviseTokenAuth gem implemented on your Rails project, you can just run this generator:
```

```
$ rails g apple_sign_in:appple_auth_controller [scope]
```
In the scope you need to write your path from controllers to your existent devise controllers and set up the routes.

> It will create a controller , that implements AppleAuth metods, get the user's email, and register them.

Author: No, it refers to the generator, maybe I will change to This generator...

> You can find more info and the guide to install the gem on the [README](https://github.com/rootstrap/apple-sign-in-rails).

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be a link to the gem? It's currently pointing to the demo as the other one

> You can find a full implementation of this gem in this [demo](https://github.com/rootstrap/apple-sign-in-rails).

Reviewer: It's better if you can point to a specific commit

> # AppleAuth, an easy ruby way to integrate with Apple Sign In.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AppleAuth: Ruby Gem for Apple Sign in Rails Integration
```

![Apple](images/apple_auth.jpg)

## What is AppleAuth?

[AppleAuth](https://rubygems.org/gems/apple_auth) is a Ruby gem we developed to integrate Apple Sign In in our server side applications.

Apple announced Sign in with Apple in the [WWDC 2019 Conference](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/706/), then in September 2019 Apple updated its [App Store Review Guideline](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=09122019b) to state that if your iOS app implements a third-party or social login service (like Facebook Login or Google Sign-In) it will be mandatory to offer Apple sign in as an option by the end of April 2020.  Besides following the standards, implementing apple authentication will let sign in using their two-factor authentication Apple ID. After the user follows Sign in with Apple to log in, your app receives tokens and user information that you can use to authenticate the user in your server.

### Apple sign-in workflow
![Apple sign in flow](images/apple_sign_in_flow.png)

> For more information, check the [Apple Oficial Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_rest_api)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, check the [Apple Official Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_rest_api)
```

## How does AppleAuth works?

### Validation

> Apple authentication follows the OAuth 2.0 flow, and this gem will help us with this flow. After the user signs in in the client side, we will have access to the user_identity, code, and JWT on our server side. The last one is a token that will be used to validate the user authentication with Apple. So Apple_Auth's first step will be to decode and validate the JWT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Apple authentication follows the OAuth 2.0 flow, and this gem will help us with this flow. After the user signs in the client-side, we will have access to the user_identity, code, and JWT on our server-side. The last one is a token that will be used to validate user authentication with Apple. So Apple_Auth's first step will be to decode and validate the JWT.
```

> # AppleAuth gem, Rails Apple Sing In integration

Reviewer 4: To help the discovery of the article from Google, we should brainstorm some other titles and the name that Apple gives is Sign in with Apple https://developer.apple.com/sign-in-with-apple/:
- Sign in with Apple in Ruby on Rails using the AppleAuth gem
- How to integrate Sign in with Apple in Ruby on Rails using the AppleAuth gem?
- Easily integrate Sign in with Apple in Ruby on Rails with AppleAuth gem

Reviewer 5: - AppleAuth, the rails gem to easily configure Apple Sign In

Reviewer 6: * AppleAuth, an easy ruby way to integrate with Apple Sign In.

<img src="images/apple_auth.png" alt="Apple" />

> ## What is AppleAuth?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## What is the Rootstrap AppleAuth gem?
```
```suggestion
## What is AppleAuth gem by Rootstrap?
```

Reviewer 4: Other options maybe

> [AppleAuth](https://rubygems.org/gems/apple_auth) is a rootstrap developed Ruby gem to integrate Apple Sign In in our server side applications. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[AppleAuth](https://rubygems.org/gems/apple_auth) is a Rootstrap developed Ruby gem to integrate Apple Sign In in our server side applications. 
```

> ## Why implement apple sign in in our projects?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Why implement Sign in with Apple in your project?
```

> This year, on the last iOS 13 release, "Sign in with Apple" login was one of the new features. At the same time the announce and update his App Store Review Guideline that if your ios app implements a third-party or social login service, like login with Facebook, will be mandatory to offer apple sign in as one option, by the end of April 2020.  Besides following the standards, implement this user authentication will let sign in using their two-factor authentication Apple ID. After the user follows Sign in with Apple to log in, your app receives tokens and user information that you can use to authenticate the user in your server.

Reviewer 4: I think the dates are not correct.
```suggestion
Apple announced Sign in with Apple in the (WWDC 2019 Conference)[https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/706/], then in September 2019 Apple updated his (App Store Review Guideline) [https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=09122019b] to state that if your iOS app implements a third-party or social login service (like Facebook Login or Google Sign-In) it will be mandatory to offer Apple sign in as an option by the end of April 2020.  
```

> ### Apple sign-in workflow:

Reviewer 4: I would move this section to the top changin the title to `What it is Sign in with Apple?` to first explain it a little and show the workflow

Reviewer 2: I would remove the colon (:) and just leave the title here

<img src="images/apple_sign_in_flow" alt="Apple" />
For more information, check [Apple Oficial Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_rest_api)

> ## How AppleAuth works?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## How the Rootstrap AppleAuth gem works?
```

### Validate
Apple authentication flows OAuth 2.0, and our gem will help us with this flow. After the user sign-in in the client-side, on our server-side, we will have access to the user_identity, code, and JWT, the last one is a token that we will use to validate the user authentication with apple. First step Apple_Auth will decode and validate the JWT.

```
# with a valid JWT
user_id = '000343.1d22d2937c7a4e56806dfb802b06c430...'
valid_jwt_token = 'eyJraWQiOiI4NkQ4OEtmIiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.eyJpc...'
AppleAuth::UserIdentity.new(user_id, valid_jwt_token).validate!
>>  { exp: 1595279622, email: "user@example.com", email_verified: true , ...}

# with an invalid JWT
invalid_jwt_token = 'eyJraWQiOiI4NkQsd4OEtmIiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.edsyJpc...'
AppleAuth::UserIdentity.new(user_id, invalid_jwt_token).validate!
>> Traceback (most recent call last):..
>> ...
>>  AppleAuth::Conditions::JWTValidationError
```

### Authenticate

> If we valivate sucseffly the JWT, we can autenticate them and ge users information. At this point we can persist refresh-token, to once a day, if it is needed get a fresh token from apple and ensure users that the user continues to have their apple_id validated.

Reviewer 6: ```validate successfully```

Reviewer 6: ```get users information```
